and in production the 2nd Corinthians. Paul wrote his 2nd inspired letter to the
Corinthians some months after the congregation received his first. Titus had
been sent to Corinth to assist in the collection for the brothers in Judea and
possibly also to observe the Corinthians reaction to Paul's first inspired
letter to them. When Titus left Corinth, he traveled to meet Paul. Because Titus
brought a good report, Paul rejoiced and wrote to the Corinthians yet again.
2 Corinthians has 13 chapters. In chapter 1, Paul refers to Jehovah as the
father of tender mercies and the God of all comfort who comforts us in all our
trials. In chapter 2, Paul reassures the congregation of his love for them,
mindful of the strong counsel he gave them in his first inspired letter. The
wrongdoer who had been expelled from the congregation has now changed his ways
and should be forgiven and welcomed back. In chapter 3, Paul writes that being
adequately qualified as ministers comes from God. Chapter 4 describes the
ministry of the new covenant as a treasure in earthen vessels. Although we are
simply imperfect earthen vessels, the message we preach can bring everlasting
life to us and to those who listen to us. In chapter 5, Paul states, the love the
Christ has compels us. We cannot accept the extraordinary love of Christ without
feeling compelled to live for him. His love motivates us to imitate his example.
Chapter 6 explains that fellowship between one who is a true Christian and one who
is not would be an uneven yoke. It could result only in harm to the Christian's
faith. Chapter 7 contrasts Godly sadness with the sadness of the world. Godly
sadness results when a person sees wrongdoing as a sin against God. This moves
the person to seek forgiveness and turn from his wrong course. The sadness of the
world is different. In this case, although a person may be sad that his wrongdoing
was exposed, he has no desire to gain God's forgiveness. In chapters 8 and 9, Paul
encourages the Corinthians to follow through with the relief ministry to help the
brothers experiencing adversity in Judea. Did you know? Paul used forms of the
same Greek word for ministry to describe the preaching and teaching work as
well as the work of providing relief. Thus, relief work is part of a Christian
sacred service to Jehovah. Because of the bad influence of false apostles,
arguments are set forth in chapters 10 to 13 to counteract their teaching. Paul
reminds the congregation that scriptural truth can overturn strongly entrenched
doctrines, practices, and attitudes that reflect imperfect human wisdom. As you
read 2 Corinthians, note how Jehovah, the God of all comfort, strengthens and
sustains his servants. How genuine repentance leads to friendship with God. And
how even fragile humans can proclaim the good news of God's kingdom.